Derek Dickinson -- CS 645 Term Project

The program "project.c" performs a series of real-time transformations to
an object (constructed of lines) which give the illusion of motion.

Several different transformations are supported:
  scaling      (In X, Y and Z dimensions)
  rotations    (About the three primary axises and about an arbritrary line)
  translations (In X, Y and Z dimensions)

The rotations rotate full circle.  Scaling and translation have bounding
values which reverse the direction of transformation (sort of like a
bounce in the case of translation).

The transformations can be independantly enabled and disabled although
the more more simultaneous transformations which are occuring will slow
down the rate at which the new frames are generated.

A variety of values can be interactively changed at run time and some of
their statuses are displayed in a text window on the bottom of the screen.

A list of the commands and what they do follows:

  Q or Esc : Exit the program.

  Ctrl-R : Toggle the rotation about an arbritrary axis.
  S or Ctrl-S : Toggle scaling.
  T or Ctrl-T : Toggle translation.
  Ctrl-X : Toggle the rotation about the X-axis.
  Ctrl-Y : Toggle the rotation about the y-axis.
  Ctrl-Z : Toggle the rotation about the z-axis.

  Note : Which transformations are enabled is displayed on the bottom line
         of the text window.  Merely enabling a transformation may have
         no effect if the values associated with the transformation are
         null (Ex. translating 0,0,0 will not change the object).

  R : Increase the angle per frame of rotation about an arbritrary axis.
  r : Decrease the angle per frame of rotation about an arbritrary axis.

  The top line in the text window on the bottom of the screen can be set
  to display several sets of values.  These are:

    Spins -- Rotations about the three primary axises (degrees per frame)

    Rotation point one : Arbritrary axis line endpoint
    Rotation point two : Arbritrary axis line endpoint
    Degrees per frame of arbritrary rotation

    Translation change per frame
    Translation minimum values
    Translation maximum values

    Scaling change per frame
    Scaling minimum values
    Scaling maximum values

  The groups above will be displayed at once (and top to bottom here will
  be left to right on the screen).  When one of these lines is displayed
  then the values displayed can be modified.  Double brackets will enclose
  the specific value if more than one is displayed.  For example, if the
  line contained was :

Translate  [[ 0.00,0.00,0.00 ]] (-5.00,-4.00,-1.50) (5.00,4.00,6.00)

  The delta translation values (currently 0,0,0) could be modified.  The
  4 arrow keys can be used to change which value will be changed.

  These keys are used to modify the selected parameters.

  X : Increase value of selected X coordinate.
  x : Decrease value of selected X coordinate.
  Y : Increase value of selected Y coordinate.
  y : Decrease value of selected y coordinate.
  Z : Increase value of selected Z coordinate.
  z : Decrease value of selected z coordinate.

  The following keys are used to change the viewing transformations.

  V : Toggles between perspective and parallel viewing transformations.
  D : Increase perspective distance.
  d : Decrease perspective distance.
  L : Increase length parameter of parallel transformation.
  l : Decrease length parameter of parallel transformation.
  K : Increase angle parameter of parallel transformation.
  k : Decrease angle parameter of parallel transformation.
  Note: The letter k was chosen here because it is beside l.  A more
        mnuemonic letter evades me.

  /* Several different objects are available.  The object can be changed
  using the P commands.  The value will wraparound. */
  P : Increase (polygon) index
  p : Decrease (polygon) index

  The following commands set the transformation values to null settings.
  This is useful since most of the adjustments are made to the changes per
  frame.  For example, if you initiate a translation in the x direction and
  then set the delta back to zero the object may still be translated by some
  amount.  Alt-X would center the value back to the middle of the screen.

  Alt-R : Set rotation about an arbritrary value axis to 0.
  Alt-S : Set scale values to 1.
  Alt-T : Set translation values to 0.
  Alt-X : Set rotation about X axis to 0.
  Alt-Y : Set rotation about Y axis to 0.
  Alt-Z : Set rotation about Z axis to 0.

Thats all of the possible instructions.  The previous discussion described
the top line of the text window.  The second line contains more status
information.  An example of it is:

status=S X Y Z R T | Perspective, distance=10.00

The "status" part of the line indicates which transformations are enabled.
If the letter appears transformation is active otherwise it is not.  The
word "Perspective" indicates that the viewing transformation is perspective
and the distance between the veiwing plane and the center of projection is
10.  If the V command is used to change the viewing transformation then
the word "Parallel" and some parameters associated with it will be
displayed.

The transformations are performed in the order which they are displayed
in the status string above.  Also, the center of the screen is defined to
be the origin for all the transformations.


The complement program to this one is called "multyobj.c".  This program
allows the user to interactively place and move about as many as 9 objects
on the screen.  Since the animation effects are not required here the
functions are broken up a little differently here.

Its command structure is very similar to that of project.c.
The differences are:

  1. Since there is no animation the delta variables do not exist so they
     need not be adjusted.  These commands were eliminated or replaced
     with ones to adjust absolute values.

  2. I wanted to allow more precise definition of the various transformation.
     To do this I set up a variable (curdel) which determined the amount
     which the other values would be adjusted.  This value can be precisely
     controlled.

  3. A command was required to switch from one object to another.

  New and changed commands:

  R : Now increases absolute angle of change rather than per frame.
  r : Now decreases absolute angle of change rather than per frame.
  O : Increases Object index.
  o : Decreases Object index.
  A or a : Toggles whether the object is activate.

  7 : Increase curdel value by 1
  8 : Increase curdel value by .1
  9 : Increase curdel value by .01

  1 : Decrease curdel value by 1
  2 : Decrease curdel value by .1
  3 : Decrease curdel value by .01

  The number keys were chosen due to their location on the numeric keypad.

The remaining functions perform the same.  There are two additional
status values displayed.  One of these is the current value of the
"curdel" variable.  The other is an "A" will appear in the status
part to indicate that the object is active.  An easy way to see which
object you are adjusting is by typind "A" twice.  The current object
will disappear and then reappear.